Tgls — Thin bindings to OpenGL {3,4} and OpenGL ES {2,3} for OCaml
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Release %%VERSION%%

Tgls is a set of independent OCaml libraries providing thin bindings
to OpenGL libraries. It has support for core OpenGL 3.{2,3} and
4.{0,1,2,3,4} and OpenGL ES {2,3}.

Tgls depends on [ocaml-ctypes][1] and the C OpenGL library of your
platform.
          
[1]: https://github.com/ocamllabs/ocaml-ctypes

Home page: http://erratique.ch/software/tgls  
Contact: Daniel Bünzli `<daniel.buenzl i@erratique.ch>`


## Installation

Tgls can be installed with `opam`:

    opam install tgls

If you don't use `opam` consult the [`opam`](opam) file for
build instructions and a complete specification of the dependencies.

## Supported OpenGL versions 

Tgls provides four libraries and corresponding `ocamlfind` packages:

* `tgl3`, supports all functions and enumerants to program with a
   core OpenGL 3.2 or OpenGL 3.3 context.

* `tgl4`, supports all functions and enumerants to program with a
   core OpenGL 4.0 to 4.4 context.

* `tgles2`, supports all functions and enumerants to program with an
   OpenGL ES 2.0 context.

* `tgles3`, supports all functions and enumerants to program with an
   OpenGL ES 3.0 context.

Compatibility contexts are not supported. For extensions, most of
those only add few entry points and/or enumerants, it seems the
easiest is to access them by using ocaml-ctypes (though the tools in
[support](support/) could be enhanced to support them).


## Documentation

The documentation and API reference is automatically generated by
`ocamldoc` from the interfaces. It can be consulted [online][3] and
there is a generated version in the `doc` directory of the
distribution.

[3]: http://erratique.ch/software/tgls/doc/


## Sample programs

If you installed `tgls` with `opam` sample programs are located in the
directory `opam config var tgls:doc`. Their source has a comment on
how to compile them.

In the distribution sample programs are located in the `test`
directory of the distribution. You'll need [tsdl][4] to compile them.

They can be built with:

    ocamlbuild -use-ocamlfind tests.otarget

The resulting binaries are in `_build/test` :

- `linkgl{3,4,es2,es3}.native`, tests that the C OpenGL library is 
  correctly linked, the executables should exit with 0. 
- `trigl{3,4,es2,es3}.native`, opens a window and draws a tricolor 
  triangle, needs [tsdl][4].

The C file [`assert_sizes.c`](test/assert_sizes.c) is a program that
should exit with [0] on your platform to ensure the bindings will
work correctly. 
  
[4]: http://erratique.ch/software/tsdl 
